[Doc] k8s troubleshooting (#14606)
elastic/logstash: docsk8s/troubleshooting/ls-k8s-troubleshooting-methods.asciidoc

[[ls-k8s-troubleshooting-methods]]

> === Troubleshooting methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Troubleshooting tips and suggestions
```

Reviewer: "Method" has a specific meaning in computing, so we should use different terminology when possible.

> There are a number of methods that you can use to diagnose the state of your {ls} and Kubernetes system, both in the event of any problems, and as part of a day-to-day approach to ensuring that everything is running as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some approaches that you can use to diagnose the state of your {ls} and Kubernetes system, both in the event of any problems, and as part of a day-to-day approach to ensuring that everything is running as expected.
```

* <<ls-k8s-checking-resources>>
* <<ls-k8s-viewing-logs>>
* <<ls-k8s-connecting-to-a-container>>
* <<ls-k8s-diagnostics>>

[float]
[[ls-k8s-checking-resources]]
=== Checking resources

You can use the standard Kubernetes `get` and `describe` commands to quickly gather details about any resources in your {ls} and Kubernetes environment.

[source,bash]
--
kubectl get pod logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv

NAME                                    READY   STATUS        RESTARTS         AGE
logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv               0/1     Pending       0                2m43s
--

> If a Pod fails to reach the `Running` status after a few seconds, run this command to get more insights:

Reviewer: Nice.  The "run this command" construct is much better than using "the following."  Those are extra works that don't add any value, so it's nice that you left them out.

[source,bash]
--
kubectl describe pod logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv

(...)
Events:
  Type     Reason            Age                 From               Message
  ----     ------            ----                ----               -------
  Warning  FailedScheduling  34s (x2 over 115s)  default-scheduler  0/1 nodes are available: 1 Insufficient cpu.
--

> You can check the CPU and memory resources by running this command

Reviewer: Needs colon

[source,bash]
--
kubectl top pod logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv

NAME                        CPU(cores)   MEMORY(bytes)
logstash-7d5b749899-tfg4f   37m          882Mi
--

[float]
[[ls-k8s-viewing-logs]]
=== Viewing logs

{ls} Docker containers do not create log files by default. They log to standard output.

> To view the log, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the log, run
```

> To view the log, run

Reviewer: Needs colon.

[source,bash]
--
kubectl logs -f logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv
--

To enable debug log, set `log.level: debug` in logstash.yml in `ConfigMap`.

[float]
[[ls-k8s-connecting-to-a-container]]
=== Connecting to a container

At times, you may need to connect directly from your command shell into {ls} and other Kubernetes resources.

[source,bash]
--
kubectl exec -it logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv -- bash
--

[float]
[[ls-k8s-diagnostics]]
=== Running diagnostics

> Sometimes, you may need to get thread dump and heap dump to debug hard problem. First you need to connect to the container, and then run the commands to take the diagnostics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thread dumps and heap dumps can be helpful when you are debugging hard problems. Connect to the container, and then run the commands to gather the diagnostics.
```

> ==== Thread Dump

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Thread dump
```

[source,bash]
--
jdk/bin/jstack -l 1 > /tmp/jstack_output.txt
--

> ==== Heap Dump

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Heap dump
```

There are a number of methods that you can use to diagnose the state of your Logstash and Kubernetes system, both in the event of any problems, and as part of a day-to-day approach to ensuring that everything is running as expected.

* <<ls-k8s-checking-resources>>
* <<ls-k8s-viewing-logs>>
* <<ls-k8s-connecting-to-a-container>>
* <<ls-k8s-diagnostics>>

[float]
[[ls-k8s-checking-resources]]
=== Checking resources

You can use the standard Kubernetes `get` and `describe` commands to quickly gather details about any resources in your Logstash and Kubernetes environment.

> `kubectl get pod logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv`

Reviewer 2: Maybe show `kubectl get pods` along [these lines](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-troubleshooting-methods.html#k8s-get-resources), then refer to the logstash pod mentioned in there?

> `kubectl describe pod logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv`

Reviewer 2: Maybe add some sample output from `describe pod` and what a failing logstash pod might look like?

`kubectl top pod logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv`

[float]
[[ls-k8s-viewing-logs]]
=== Viewing logs

{ls} Docker containers do not create log files by default. They log to standard output.

> To view the log, `kubectl logs -f logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv`

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can also add how to set debug logging too?

[float]
[[ls-k8s-connecting-to-a-container]]
=== Connecting to a container

At times, you may need to connect directly from your command shell into Logstash and other Kubernetes resources.

`kubectl exec -it logstash-7477d46bb7-4lcnv -- bash`

[float]
[[ls-k8s-diagnostics]]
=== Running diagnostics

Sometimes, you may need to get thread dump and heap dump to debug hard problem. First you need to connect to the container.

==== Thread Dump

`jdk/bin/jstack -l 1 > /tmp/jstack_output.txt`

==== Heap Dump

> `jdk/bin/jcmd 1 GC.heap_dump /tmp/heap_dump.hprof`

Reviewer 2: We might also want to show how to extract the heap/thread dumps from the container - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-jvm-heap-dumps.html#k8s_extracting_heap_dumps_from_the_elasticsearch_container
